Welcome back.
In this video we are going to be having some priority for our actions.
Obviously we can move around if that is the only thing we can do but if we're hovering over I think
we can attack we shouldn't be acting like we need to move to it.
We should just be doing our attack procedure.
So if you look in the console I'm clicking It's doing my attack procedure but it's fundamentally not
also moving to that point in the long run this is going to allow us to also put what I'm calling cursor
a fortnight which is a cursor that is either something that shows that to the player that it can attack
or that can move or that it can't do anything with this particular object.
And that's very useful in UI because when I'm hovering over something it allows the player to discover
that you're allowed to attack this thing or that you're allowed to talk with that thing.
And so that's going to be quite important in the long run.
We're not doing that in this lecture but we are laying the foundations for it.
So let's dive in and see how that's done.
So you may have noticed some slightly undesirable behavior when we tried to attack this capsule is that
we're moving right to it.
So clearly we are both doing an attack action and a movement action which is not really the correct
thing to do if you're attacking your attacking if you're moving you're moving.
And those are two different things.
So we need to sort out our priorities.
Basically if I've clicked on something that I need to attack then I don't move and if I click on something
that I need to move then I don't attack and vice versa.
Well that is vice versa.
So how do we get something like that to work.
So I think the best way to do this is to have our interact with combat.
Tell us whether or not it succeeded and if it did succeed in interacting with combat then we don't go
on to interact with movement.
If however we didn't succeed with combat then we do go on movements.
That's the priority right.
If you click on something to attack then you should attack.
Otherwise you could move there.
Obviously the other way round doesn't make much sense Cause you can move practically anywhere.
And if you just move to the enemy rather than attacked it that's kind of getting your priorities messed
up.
So how are we going to change our code here.
Well firstly I want to return a boolean value from interact with combat.
I'm going to show you how this works in here.
So this is going to return a boolean and we're going to use that in our update.
So we're gonna say if interacts with combat.
So if we have interacted with combat then I'm going to return early.
So this is very much like I continue.
It skips over the rest of this body and exits the update.
And that means it won't interact with movement which is pretty much what we want it to do.
So how is this going to work.
We need to you can see is complaining here because we're not actually returning a boolean from our interact
with combat.
So I think the clear time that we have successfully interacted with combat is going to be down here
either when we are inside this if get mouse button down we might return true here.
So we're saying oh I clicked it yet I interacted correctly with combat.
But actually what I'm going to do is take this outside of the if statement.
Why is that.
Because even if we have our mouse not down this frame but we're hovering just hovering over that combat
target we actually don't want to do any kind of interaction with movement.
Why is that.
Because later on down the line what women want to do is provide some cursor afford ints which is basically
to say if I can interact with movement then I've got to show a combat cursor.
Otherwise I'm going to show a movement cursor.
So that's just kind of laying the foundations for that week have into we are interacting with combat
even if we're just hovering over it even if we haven't clicked.
So that's why I'm returning true outside of the if statement and otherwise basically if we get to the
end of this for loop and we still haven't returned true if we still haven't exited the for loop then
that's the time when we should return false.
So exited the for loop and we just return false because we didn't find any combat targets to interact
with.
So we just return and then we interact with movement.
So if we have a go now see if this is going to give us the behavior that we want I'm going to go ahead
and hit play after it finishes compiling takes a little while sometimes I click on the capsule and you
notice no it's not going to move there.
But if I click anywhere else I can still move.
So that's pretty much the behavior we want when we're clipping clicking on the capsule is not doing
combat.
Now there are situations where you might not be able to move to where you click.
So I would like you to do a similar thing that we just did with interactive combat interacts with combat
and do it for movement as well.
So the way we're going to test this is I'm gonna have a print statement going.
Nothing to do right now.
And that's going to be at the end of our updates and if we get it all right.
Then when you go to the edge of the world which is a place where there won't be anything to interact
with the ray will go through nothing and you won't be able to move there then you should be able to
when hovering over the edge of the world over the terrain not over the terrain rather than it is going
to print nothing to do so that's your challenge to get that print to run.
You going to replicate the procedure that I followed for combat.
And when you get to the edge of the world it should print and not only when you click but also when
you hover over.
If we wanted to have the same behavior as combat that's what it should do so pause the video and have
a go at this okay.
Welcome back.
So let's give this a shot.
So the first thing is to put this statement in here.
So if movement returns true then we're going to return because we are able to we're hovering over something
that is movable.
Obviously I haven't changed this to bullion just yet.
So interact with movement wasn't bullion.
Now bullion.
And you'll notice there's going to be a problem with doing the exact same procedure because I could
choose you know if the mouse button down then true otherwise false.
But that's not going to work when it's just hovering is it.
So we need to kind of flip things around a little bit.
You notice how we've got to get mouse button down here on the outside it's not even doing a ray cast
if we're not clicking.
We need to flip that around especially if we're going to want cursor afford ints.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to take this if statement in fact just there.
If condition and copy that.
And then what we gonna do is inside at move to cursor we're getting that component the mover component
and moving to it.
That's if we've got a hit so I'm going to do my f in here instead.
So it's gonna be if get mouse button down.
So if the mouse button is currently down on the first frame but currently down then we are going to
move to that point.
But either way we are going to return True now you notice this move to curse is no longer correctly
named really it's the whole thing is just interact with movements so I'm going to pull that all into
one method and so interact with movement now does a rake cast every frame and it will return true if
it could interact with movement that's gonna give us the cursor performance in the long run.
Right now it's not by the way by afford Ince I mean you know giving us giving a hint to the user that
what can be done.
So if there's a walking cursor they know that they can walk there.
If it is an attack curse they need a contact.
That's what we mean in user interface design by a fortnight.
So they interact with movement now attends a boolean but not everywhere.
If you hover over it saying not all code path return a value which is a fancy way of saying that basically
if I ran through all of this in this if statement was false I wouldn't have a return value at the end.
It wouldn't know whether it was true or false.
So I'm going to return false at this stage.
So if has hit we are going to get mouse button and return true.
If it finds something we return true if it doesn't find anything return false.
So that should pretty much do the trick.
Let's move our character a little bit towards the edge of the world.
So I'm going to zoom out.
Get to the player.
I'm going to stick him near the edge of the world over here.
In fact this can be quite troublesome if you want to move the play around sometimes easier just to delete
the player as long as you don't have any modifications to the prefab which you shouldn't because you
should try and apply them back as much as possible.
And I'm gonna go to the game characters easy to find because my new layout and we can drag that character
right onto the edge of the world if we go ahead and hit play.
It's going to complain because the follow camera is not setup to point out the player hit play now we're
on the edge of the world and if I hover over the edge of the world you can see it's printing log messages
about having nothing to do so clear and I'm over the terrain and nothing's happening.
Hover over the edge of the world and at what didn't have it focus I don't actually have to click to
have it coming up but I just didn't have the game viewport focus.
But if I go over the edge of the world it's printing nothing to do so we know that is getting to this
stage.
This print statement in the code so I'm happy with that.
Which means that later on when we are adding cursor forces we can put something like a..
No action is possible here kind of thing.
For now I'm going to delete that print statement because we've got the idea.
You've kind of cemented it by doing it yourself with this interact with movement.
So I'm happy.
Let's move on to the next lecture.